Update encoder documentation (#106)
Severson-Group/AMDC-Hardware: docs/Encoder.md

# AMDC Encoder Input

This document describes the design considerations and implementation details for the encoder input subsystem on the Advanced Motor Drive Controller (AMDC). A block diagram is presented and each component is discussed in detail. Specifications of each component are provided based on the datasheet.

## Relevant Versions of AMDC Hardware

AMDC REV D

## Design Requirements

There are two design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of the AMDC:

1. Interface standard differential incremental encoders (5V differential unipolar signals) to FPGA.

2. Provide a high-bandwidth front-end so that the encoder line count is limited by the FPGA speed, not circuitry.

## Block Diagram

> <img src="images/amdc-encoder.svg" />

Reviewer: Please remove the repeated blocks for encoder 2. Instead indicate `2x copies on PCB` with a blue box around it, like you are doing in PR #109.

### 1. Encoders

> The AMDC REV D hardware supports two independent encoder interfaces. These must be incremental encoders outputting differential ABZ signals (i.e. the encoder outputs both the non-inverting and inverting signal, e.g. A and A̅). If the encoder only provides single-ended ABZ outputs, an adapter must be used between the encoder and the AMDC which converts the single-ended outputs to the differential signals required by the AMDC. For proper operation, the encoder ground should be connected to the AMDC ground via a pin on the DB9 connector. For powering the encoder, the user has two options: the AMDC provides 5V power via the DB9 connector, or the user can use an external power supply.

Reviewer: > For proper operation, the encoder ground should be connected to the AMDC ground via a pin on the DB9 connector.

@Anvar-Khamitov and @npetersen2 I think this sentence is obvious and should be removed. (I mean: of course the encoder logic level must be referenced to the same common used by the AMDC...). Do you agree?

Author: ... yes... kind of... The encoder interface will probably work just fine without connecting to a shared common, since it is differential. But, of course, the user SHOULD connect to shared common.

The reason the sentence is there is to make sure they do, since it might intermittently work without the GND connection (e.g. it works without PWM EMI, then doesn't when PWM is on)

We can remove it if you think it actually is obvious to connect the common GND!

Reviewer: Thanks for explaining. Let's keep the sentence.

#### Maximum Encoder Frequency Output

Users must select an appropriate encoder for their application. Typically, the decision is based on cost, physical size, rotor speed, and maximum supported frequency output. The last metric, maximum frequency output, is determined by the AMDC hardware.

The maximum encoder signal frequency that the AMDC is able to receive depends on the FPGA clock frequency, which is nominally 200MHz.  It is suggested that there is a minimum of a 10x oversampling ratio. This means the frequency of the encoder square wave output should be less than 20MHz (20 million pulses per second).

> ##### Encoder Example Application

Reviewer: This example is great! Very nice idea to include it.

Is it based around an actual encoder product that is commercially available? If so, can we provide a link to the product? If not, could we update this to correspond to an actual encoder (and provide a link to the product). This would present more a complete example that I think would be helpful to users to see.

Author: @Anvar-Khamitov @elsevers I don't think this is a real encoder... I have used US Digital encoders with okay luck in the past: https://www.usdigital.com/products/encoders/incremental/kit/E5

On their website, you can specify the `CPR` you want. NOTE: This is **not** the definition we are using in these docs! CPR for US Digital means "cycles per rev" where CPR * 4 = PPR. In this doc, we are calling counts per rev, "CPR," to mean PPR from US Digital. Very confusing, yes. We care about the larger number (the 4x number)!

The example in the doc was written with easy numbers and easy math. Hopefully we can find a real product that also has easy numbers for easy math.

Reviewer: Sounds good. Instead of modifying the example to pertain to an exact encoder, we could instead link to this encoder at the end of the example and just explain how to interpret its terminology for the example calculations.

### 2. DB9 Connector

Each D-sub connecter has 9 pins – 6 for the differential ABZ signals, 2 for the ground signals and 1 for 5V supply to the encoder. A jumper should be installed if the encoder is powered by 5V from the AMDC. There are two jumpers numbered on the silkscreen as JP2 for Encoder 1 and JP3 for Encoder 2, as shown in the block diagram. Encoder 1 and Encoder 2 correspond to the top and bottom encoders in the picture below.

A table of the pin mappings for each D-Sub connector is shown below:

| Pin number | Signal name |
|------------|--------|
| 1 | A |
| 2 | A̅ |
| 3 | B |
| 4 | B̅ |
| 5 | Z |
| 6 | Z̅ |
| 7 | 5V |
| 8 | GND |
| 9 | GND |

To view the mapping between the AMDC schematic labels, PicoZed pins, and Zynq-7000 balls used in Vivado, take a look at the encoder  section of the [pin mapping document](RevD-PinMapping.md#encoder).

Location of these encoder connectors in the AMDC is shown below:

> <img src="images/amdc-encoder-input-highlighted.svg" />

Reviewer: Please add a `1` and `2` to this diagram to indicate encoder 1 and encoder 2

More information on the D-sub connector can be found [here]( https://www.alliedelec.com/m/d/c3366066d9274ddf3c20bc3008518f5b.pdf?src-supplier=Allied+Electronics).

### 3. Differential to Single-Ended Conversion

> After passing through the D-sub connector, the differential ABZ signals (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z, Z̅) are converted to the single-ended ABZ signals (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) using the [AM26C32](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf) chip. This chip is supplied by a `Vcc = 5V DC` source from the AMDC. The following table summarizes the absolute maximum ratings taken from the datasheet for this chip:

Reviewer: > This chip is supplied by a `Vcc = 5V DC` source from the AMDC.

This seems unnecessary, let's remove it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After passing through the D-sub connector, the differential ABZ signals (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z, Z̅) are converted to the single-ended ABZ signals (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) using the [AM26C32](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf) chip. The following table summarizes the absolute maximum ratings taken from the datasheet for this chip:

```

| Parameter                            | MIN    | MAX           |
|--------------------------------------|--------|---------------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                   |        | 7V           |
| Input voltage (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z or Z̅)   | -11V  | 14V          |
| Differential input voltage           | -14V  | 14V          |

> | Output voltage (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) | -0.5V | (Vcc + 0.5)V |

Reviewer: Absolute maximum ratings seem unnecessary to provide here. I suggest we remove it and only provide the recommended operating conditions. @npetersen2 and @Anvar-Khamitov, do you agree?

Author: I agree as well.

Exposure to the absolute maximum ratings for an extended period of time may affect device reliability. Therefore, it is recommended to operate under the recommended operating conditions:

| Parameter                             | MIN   | NOM | MAX   |
|---------------------------------------|-------|-----|-------|

> | Supply voltage Vcc                    | 4.5V | 5V | 5.5V |

Reviewer: The user doesn't get to provide `Vcc` (it is provided by the AMDC), so don't list this row in the table (that is, only provide info that the user will find helpful)

> | High-level input voltage (logic HIGH) | 2V   |     | Vcc   |

Reviewer: Replace `Vcc` with 5V

| Low-level input voltage (logic LOW)   | 0V   |     | 0.8V |

> | Common-mode input voltage             | -7V  |     | 7V   |

Reviewer: I am confused about how to interpret the common-mode input voltage. For example, I don't see how you can have a common-mode voltage of -7V combined with the requirement of a high-level input voltage of 2V and expect things to work.... 

Maybe I misunderstand how to interpret the specification of `High-level input voltage` and `Low-level input voltage` -- can you explain?

Reviewer 2: @elsevers As I understood from the datasheet, the values given for `High-level input voltage` and `Low-level input voltage` are with respect to the `Common-mode input voltage`, not with respect to `GND`. For example, if `Common-mode input voltage` = 5V, `High-level input voltage` is between 7V and 10V, and `Low-level input voltage` is between 5V and 5.8V with respect to `GND`.

# AMDC Encoder Input

This document describes the design considerations and implementation details for the encoder input subsystem on the Advanced Motor Drive Controller (AMDC). A block diagram is presented and each component is discussed in detail. Specifications of each component are provided based on the datasheet.

> *Note that this discussion applies to AMDC REV D hardware only -- prior AMDC revisions used different front-end circuitry.*

Reviewer: For all of these hardware interface documents, let's plan to include a standard section called something like `Relevant Versions of AMDC Hardware`, where we provide a list of AMDC revisions that this document is applicable to.

Reviewer: This text:
> *Note that this discussion applies to AMDC REV D hardware only -- prior AMDC revisions used different front-end circuitry.*

should now be removed (or partially relocated to `Relevant Versions of AMDC Hardware`)

3.	Level shifter reduces signal voltage levels enough so that they can be transmitted to PicoZed.
There are several design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of AMDC:

1. Interface standard differential incremental encoders (unipolar, 5V differential signals) to FPGA.
2. Provide high-bandwidth front-end so that encoder line count is limited by FPGA speed, not circuitry.

## Block Diagram

<img src="images/amdc-encoder.svg" />

### 1. Encoders
Two encoders can be connected to AMDC Rev D simultaneously. These encoders should be incremental encoders outputting differential ABZ signals. For each pulse, there is non-inverting and inverting output. For example, for pulse A, there is a non-inverting output A and an inverting output A̅. If the encoder gives single-ended ABZ signals, an adapter which converts from single-ended to differential should be used to connect to AMDC. Encoder ground should be connected to the AMDC ground through a port of d-sub connector. Encoder can be supplied from a separate source or from AMDC which gives 5 V supply through a port of d-sub connector.

> ### 2. D-Sub Connector

Reviewer: Please create a table for this section that provides the pin out for the D-Sub connectors. The first column should be the connector pin number, the second column should be the signal name as listed in the block diagram. Think about if you want to include other info in subsequent columns. For example, you could combine this table with one of the tables you list in section 3 (or not -- I can see arguments either way).

> Each d-sub connecter has 9 ports – 6 for differential ABZ signals, 2 for ground signals and 1 for 5 V supply which can be connected to encoder as a DC supply. A jumper should be connected if encoder is powered by 5 V from AMDC. More information on d-sub connector can be found [here]( https://www.alliedelec.com/m/d/c3366066d9274ddf3c20bc3008518f5b.pdf?src-supplier=Allied+Electronics)

Reviewer: > A jumper should be connected if encoder is powered by 5 V from AMDC.

Which jumper? Can you list the jumper number that is displayed on the silkscreen?

| Parameter                            | MIN    | MAX           |
|--------------------------------------|--------|---------------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                   |        | 7 V           |
| Input voltage (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z or Z̅)   | -11 V  | 14 V          |
| Differential input voltage           | -14 V  | 14 V          |
| Output voltage (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) | -0.5 V | (Vcc + 0.5) V |

Exposure to absolute maximum ratings for an extended period of time may affect device reliability. Therefore, it is recommended to operate under the recommended operating conditions:

| Parameter                             | MIN   | NOM | MAX   |
|---------------------------------------|-------|-----|-------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                    | 4.5 V | 5 V | 5.5 V |
| High-level input voltage (logic HIGH) | 2 V   |     | Vcc   |
| Low-level input voltage (logic LOW)   | 0 V   |     | 0.8 V |
| Common-mode input voltage             | -7 V  |     | 7 V   |

> When the chip is operated at nominal conditions (Vcc = 5 V, room temperature 25 C), the output signals of the chip are such that the high-level output voltage is 3.8 V or more and low-level output voltage is around 0.2 V. Typical current the chip consumes is about 10 mA. This translates to about 50 mW of power consumption with 5 V supply. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/4 ns = 87.5 MHz.

Reviewer: > The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/4 ns = 87.5 MHz.

By bandwidth, are you trying to indicate the fastest encoder signal that can be brought into the AMDC? If so, I am not sure that this is the best way to indicate that. Usually digital circuits specify a maximum frequency they can reliably operated at.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the chip is operated at nominal conditions (Vcc = 5 V, room temperature 25 C), the output signals of the chip are such that the high-level output voltage is 3.8 V or more and low-level output voltage is around 0.2 V. Typical current the chip consumes is about 10 mA. This translates to about 50 mW of power consumption with 5 V supply. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/4 ns = 87.5 MHz. 

```

Before connecting the encoder to AMDC, the user should check if the encoder output signals satisfy recommended operating conditions of the chip. More detailed information on the operating conditions can be found in the [datasheet](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf).

### 4. Level Shifter

> After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5 V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8 V. The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

Reviewer: > The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V.

I am confused by this sentence. Is it saying that this part can source 32 mA to the picozed? And isn't the output voltage rail at 1.8 V (not 5 V)? Finally, if I understand all of that correctly, is this information relevant to the document or should we consider not providing it?

> After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5 V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8 V. The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

Reviewer: > ...are both approximately equal to 1ns.

In other places, you are using a space between the number and the unit, please revise this to be consistent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5 V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8 V. The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

```

> After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5 V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8 V. The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

Reviewer: > The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the bandwidth of the chip is approximately equal to 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

By bandwidth, are you trying to indicate the fastest encoder signal that can be brought into the AMDC? If so, I am not sure that this is the best way to indicate that. Usually digital circuits specify a maximum frequency they can reliably operated at.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5 V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8 V. The maximum output current can be up to 32 mA when device is powered by 5 V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/1 ns = 350 MHz.

```

# AMDC Encoder Input

This document describes the design considerations and implementation details for the encoder input subsystem on the Advanced Motor Drive Controller (AMDC). A block diagram is presented and each component is discussed in detail. Specifications of each component are provided based on the datasheet.

*Note that this discussion applies to AMDC REV D hardware only -- prior AMDC revisions used different front-end circuitry.*

# Relevant Versions of AMDC Hardware

AMDC REV D

## Design Requirements

> There are several design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of AMDC:

Reviewer: >several design requirements

I think this should say "**two** design requirements"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of AMDC:

```

> 1. Interface standard differential incremental encoders (unipolar, 5V differential signals) to FPGA.

Reviewer: I am not quite sure what we mean by the text in the parenthesis `(unipolar, 5V differential signals)`

To be able to interface `unipolar` or `5V differential signals`, or to be able to interface `5V differential signals` that are `unipolar` in the sense that they are centered around a common mode voltage of 2.5V?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Interface standard differential incremental encoders (5V differential unipolar signals) to FPGA.

```

> 2. Provide high-bandwidth front-end so that encoder line count is limited by FPGA speed, not circuitry.

Reviewer: Should be:

-  "Provide **a** high-bandwidth" 
- "so that **the** encoder line count"
- "by **the** FPGA speed"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Provide a high-bandwidth front-end so that the encoder line count is limited by the FPGA speed, not circuitry.

```

## Block Diagram

<img src="images/amdc-encoder.svg" />

### 1. Encoders

The AMDC REV D hardware supports two independent encoder interfaces. These must be incremental encoders outputting differential ABZ signals (i.e. the encoder outputs both the non-inverting and inverting signal, e.g. A and A̅). If the encoder only provides single-ended ABZ outputs, an adapter must be used between the encoder and the AMDC which converts the single-ended outputs to the differential signals required by the AMDC. For proper operation, the encoder ground should be connected to the AMDC ground via a pin on the DB9 connector. For powering the encoder, the user has two options: the AMDC provides 5 V power via the DB9 connector, or the user can use an external power supply.

### 2. DB9 Connector

> Each D-sub connecter has 9 pins – 6 for differential ABZ signals, 2 for ground signals and 1 for 5V supply to encoder. A jumper should be installed if the encoder is powered by 5 V from AMDC. There are two jumpers numbered on the silkscreen as JP2 and JP3 (each for one encoder input). 

Reviewer: How do we know which jumper is for which encoder? For that matter, how do we know which encoder on the connector is `Encoder 1` (top or bottom?) and which is `Encoder 2` (top or bottom?) from your block diagram?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each D-sub connecter has 9 pins – 6 for differential ABZ signals, 2 for ground signals and 1 for 5V supply to encoder. A jumper should be installed if the encoder is powered by 5 V from AMDC. There are two jumpers numbered on the silkscreen as JP2 for Encoder 1 and JP3 for Encoder 2, as shown in the block diagram. Encoder 1 and Encoder 2 correspond to top and bottom encoders in the picture below.

```

A table of the pin mappings for each D-Sub connector is shown below:

> | Pin number | Signal name |

Reviewer: Should we be providing information about which picozed pins these are connected to in a manner that would help firmware developers?

I don't mean the physical pin numbers, as much as I mean the net name that Vivado uses when you set up your user constraints file to map Verilog code to the physical hardware. When manipulating the low level Verilog, it would be helpful to be able to quickly look up the encoder interface doc and be able to see a table of which nets the Verilog module should be mapped to.

Thoughts on this?

Reviewer 2: Looks like it is addressed by @npetersen2 in 58e1b73

| Parameter                            | MIN    | MAX           |
|--------------------------------------|--------|---------------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                   |        | 7 V           |
| Input voltage (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z or Z̅)   | -11 V  | 14 V          |
| Differential input voltage           | -14 V  | 14 V          |
| Output voltage (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) | -0.5 V | (Vcc + 0.5) V |

Exposure to absolute maximum ratings for an extended period of time may affect device reliability. Therefore, it is recommended to operate under the recommended operating conditions:

| Parameter                             | MIN   | NOM | MAX   |
|---------------------------------------|-------|-----|-------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                    | 4.5 V | 5 V | 5.5 V |
| High-level input voltage (logic HIGH) | 2 V   |     | Vcc   |
| Low-level input voltage (logic LOW)   | 0 V   |     | 0.8 V |
| Common-mode input voltage             | -7 V  |     | 7 V   |

> When the chip is operated at nominal conditions (Vcc = 5 V, room temperature 25 C), the output signals of the chip are such that the high-level output voltage is 3.8 V or more and low-level output voltage is around 0.2 V. Typical current the chip consumes is about 10 mA. This translates to about 50 mW of power consumption with 5 V supply. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/4 ns = 87.5 MHz.

Reviewer: > The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4 ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/4 ns = 87.5 MHz

You have language like this in here in a couple places. Can you explain why we are including it? It sounds to me like an attempt to set a maximum frequency of encoder pulses that we are able to receive (which, please do specify!). However, I am not sure that this is the way to specify it.

Reviewer 2: @elsevers Yes, I wanted to specify the maximum encoder pulse frequency that we are able to receive. I thought it is equal to the minimum of maximum frequencies each chip in the encoder chain can receive. I specified the maximum frequency for two chips (differential to single-ended converter and level shifter), but did not initially find the information about maximum frequency Picozed can receive from the encoder. Now I think I found some information about that, but I am not sure whether it is relevant (it is difficult to find where they explicitly say about maximum frequency):

- In the last paragraph in page 21 of [this document](http://zedboard.org/sites/default/files/documentations/5282-UG-PicoZed-7010_7020-v2_0.pdf), it says `Within a PL I/O Bank 34 or Bank 35, there are 50 I/O capable of up to 24 differential pairs per bank. Differential LVDS pairs on a -1 speed grade device are capable of 950Mbps of DDR data`. `Bank 35` corresponds to the pins where encoder signals are connected.
- In page 2 under `Feature Summary` table in [this document](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/data_sheets/ds190-Zynq-7000-Overview.pdf), it says maximum frequency for the processing system is 667 MHz for -1 speed grade device and 766 MHz for -2 speed grade device. 

I am not sure whether these are relevant information and whether should be included. @npetersen2 Could you please help with this?

Author: @Anvar-Khamitov Thanks for looking into this. I believe the answer is as follows. This depends on the FPGA clock frequency.

The encoder data lines are read into the FPGA. Therefore they are sampled at the FPGA clock frequency. We run the FPGA at 200MHz (clk = 200MHz, Tclk = 1/200MHz = 5ns). I suggest we have a minimum of a 10x over-sampling ratio per encoder data line square wave voltage level. So, the frequency of the square wave on the encoder data line must be less than 1/(20*Tclk). This corresponds to a 10MHz square wave. This is the final answer.

The document should probably have some info related to encoder specs:
- Cycles per revolution (CPR)
- Pulses per revolution (PPR = 4 x CPR)

Let's do an example: For the 160kRPM project, this means Fm = 2.66k [Hz] mechanical revolutions per second. Let's assume the encoder is: CPR = 1024, PPR = 4096. Then, the square wave freq on the encoder data lines is Fm * PPR = ~11kHz.

If that math is right, it means that the ability of the FPGA is WAY higher than the encoder output... 10MHz >> 11kHz. So, I think a 1024 CPR encoder is fine for the 160kRPM project.

@elsevers @Anvar-Khamitov Can you guys check my math above? Does it make sense?

Author: In fact, if that math is right, I don't really think you can buy an encoder that wouldn't work with the AMDC.... All achievable encoder output rates are okay.

Reviewer 2: @npetersen2 I think it should be Fm * PPR = ~11MHz instead of 11kHz in your calculations, which is higher than 10MHz.

Author: Oh excellent, that makes much more sense. I was pretty shocked at how small my number was!

Reviewer 2: Okay:) thanks! I will then include in the document that 10MHz is the maximum frequency we are able to receive, and mention about CPR/PPR.

# AMDC Encoder Input

This document describes the design considerations and implementation details for the encoder input subsystem on the Advanced Motor Drive Controller (AMDC). A block diagram is presented and each component is discussed in detail. Specifications of each component are provided based on the datasheet.

# Relevant Versions of AMDC Hardware

AMDC REV D

## Design Requirements

> There are two design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of AMDC:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two design requirements that must be met for the encoder subsystem of the AMDC:

```

### 2. DB9 Connector

Each D-sub connecter has 9 pins – 6 for differential ABZ signals, 2 for ground signals and 1 for 5V supply to encoder. A jumper should be installed if the encoder is powered by 5V from AMDC. There are two jumpers numbered on the silkscreen as JP2 for Encoder 1 and JP3 for Encoder 2, as shown in the block diagram. Encoder 1 and Encoder 2 correspond to top and bottom encoders in the picture below.

A table of the pin mappings for each D-Sub connector is shown below:

| Pin number | Signal name |
|------------|--------|
| 1 | A |
| 2 | A̅ |
| 3 | B |
| 4 | B̅ |
| 5 | Z |
| 6 | Z̅ |
| 7 | 5V |
| 8 | GND |
| 9 | GND |

To view the mapping between the AMDC schematic labels, PicoZed pins, and Zynq-7000 balls used in Vivado, take a look at the encoder  section of the [pin mapping document](RevD-PinMapping.md#encoder).

Location of these encoder connectors in the AMDC is shown below:

<img src="images/amdc-encoder-input-highlighted.svg" />

More information on the D-sub connector can be found [here]( https://www.alliedelec.com/m/d/c3366066d9274ddf3c20bc3008518f5b.pdf?src-supplier=Allied+Electronics).

### 3. Differential to Single-Ended Conversion

> After passing through the D-sub connector, the differential ABZ signals (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z, Z̅) are converted to single-ended ABZ signals (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) using the [AM26C32](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf) chip. This chip is supplied by `Vcc = 5V DC` source from AMDC. The following table summarizes the absolute maximum ratings taken from the datasheet for this chip:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After passing through the D-sub connector, the differential ABZ signals (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z, Z̅) are converted to single-ended ABZ signals (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) using the [AM26C32](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf) chip. This chip is supplied by a `Vcc = 5V DC` source from the AMDC. The following table summarizes the absolute maximum ratings taken from the datasheet for this chip:

```

| Parameter                            | MIN    | MAX           |
|--------------------------------------|--------|---------------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                   |        | 7V           |
| Input voltage (A, A̅, A, B̅, Z or Z̅)   | -11V  | 14V          |
| Differential input voltage           | -14V  | 14V          |
| Output voltage (OUT A, OUT B, OUT Z) | -0.5V | (Vcc + 0.5)V |

Exposure to absolute maximum ratings for an extended period of time may affect device reliability. Therefore, it is recommended to operate under the recommended operating conditions:

| Parameter                             | MIN   | NOM | MAX   |
|---------------------------------------|-------|-----|-------|
| Supply voltage Vcc                    | 4.5V | 5V | 5.5V |
| High-level input voltage (logic HIGH) | 2V   |     | Vcc   |
| Low-level input voltage (logic LOW)   | 0V   |     | 0.8V |
| Common-mode input voltage             | -7V  |     | 7V   |

> When the chip is operated at nominal conditions (Vcc = 5V, room temperature 25C), the output signals of the chip are such that the high-level output voltage is 3.8V or more and low-level output voltage is around 0.2V. Typical current the chip consumes is about 10mA. This translates to about 50mW of power consumption with 5V supply. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/4ns = 87.5MHz.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the chip is operated at nominal conditions (Vcc = 5V, room temperature 25C), the high-level output voltage is 3.8V or more and low-level output voltage is around 0.2V. The chip typically consumes about 10mA, which translates to about 50mW of power consumption with 5V supply. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 4ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/4ns = 87.5MHz.

```

Before connecting the encoder to AMDC, the user should check if the encoder output signals satisfy recommended operating conditions of the chip. More detailed information on the operating conditions can be found in the [datasheet](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/am26c32.pdf).

### 4. Level Shifter

> After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are then level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/1ns = 350MHz.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the encoder differential signals are converted to single-ended, these signals are level-shifted/translated to a lower voltage, allowing compatibility with PicoZed FPGA. The level shifter [SN74LVC8T245](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/sn74lvc8t245.pdf) uses two separate configurable power-supply rails and allows for bidirectional operation. Signals on each side (input or output) are referenced to their respective voltage rail. In the AMDC REV D design, the input voltage rail is at 5V and the output voltage rail is at 1.8V. The outputs of this chip (6 signals in total if 2 encoders are connected) are then transmitted to PicoZed. The rise and fall times of the output signal are both approximately equal to 1ns. Assuming the system as first order, the maximum frequency the chip can reliably operate at is approximately 0.35/1ns = 350MHz.

```
